Bomani Oseni McClendon is an engineer and research-based artist living in Brooklyn, NY.
<br />
<br />
Through his art practice, Bomani studies the ways that Black health outcomes are influenced by a history of scientific racism,examining his own proximity to techno-solutionist monocultures and the medical industry as a starting point. He creates light installations and electro-mechanical sculptures that use scale and diffusion to invoke thoughtful observation. As an engineer, he focuses on building software interfaces and prototypes that explore new possibilities for information creation or discovery–often integrating his affinities for product-thinking, empathic design, and collaboration into his work. While many of his works use sensors, circuits, projections, and code to augment story-telling, Bomani pushes aside these mediums when concepts require other representations. By exploring the shortcomings of scientific practice, Bomani hopes to highlight the validity of other ways of knowing.
<br />
<br />
Bomani has previously worked as a software engineer at companies such as Facebook and IDEO. Bomani has been a member of the Bay Area-based [Foldhaus Art Collective](https://www.foldhaus.com) since 2016 and is a founding member of [Dial Up](http://dialupstuff.com/), a Chicago-based creative collective established in 2014 focusedon music, film, design, and technology. In 2017, he completed a B.S. in Computer Science fromNorthwestern University, where he focused on Human-Computer Interaction, Learning Sciences, and storytelling tools for journalism. He was also a member of the Spring 2019 immersive cohort at [School for Poetic Computation](https://sfpc.io/). Projects that Bomani has worked on have been displayed at the Smithsonian's Renwick Gallery, Meet D3 Festival in Dubai Design District, Art Basel Hong Kong, and the Cincinnati Art Museum and have appeared in publications such as the New York Times, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, Tech Crunch, Creative Applications, and more.